[Music]
what is up
youtube it's your girl evelyn and the
wait
is officially over so let's dive right
in
to the wynonna herb season 4 episode 1
recap
as always there will be spoilers so
proceed with caution
season 4 picks up just seconds after the
end
of season 3. wynonna and nedley grab
their guns and
set out to rescue waverly and dock they
easily find the magical garden of eden
staircase
but unfortunately the door doesn't
appear for winona
but what does appear are dozens of
creepy little crab monsters
the duo takes them out with ease but not
before one
bites nedley they return to the
homestead to regroup
and we get yet another glimpse of the
name valdez
scratched into the wall a quick
flashback
shows us that it was actually jeremy who
was responsible for the defacement
we see him finishing the carving right
before a soldier of some kind
breaks in and tases him back in the
present day
sheriff hot wakes up aboard a cargo
train with our second favorite vampire
kate
who gives her the rundown it seems they
were kidnapped by some kind of
government agency or private militia and
although they
aren't being actively guarded the train
door locks are electrified
but nicole is more concerned with the
whereabouts of her
almost fiance waverly kate gives nicole
a reading for waverly
but through nicole but also kind of
for nicole the first two cards are chill
but the third card
really freaks kate out she tells nicole
that
waverly isn't safe and that she's on a
journey
that no human could ever survive kate
takes one for the team
and withstands electrocution to open the
train door
nicole jumps out and sets off
to find her lady back at the homestead
nedley tells wynonna that he hid
dahls's old black badge files at the
station and without any other leads
they decide to give them a look through
in the hopes of finding
something that will help them figure out
a way into the garden
also mercedes randomly pops up
apparently she was chilling at the house
with kate snuggled up in post-coital
bliss
when the secret soldiers barged in and
mercedes
the show's most prolific survivalist
ditched her vamp lover
and ran to the earth homestead the gang
arrives at the station
and wynonna hits the jackpot when she
stumbles upon the file of one
dr gloria valdez unsurprisingly
valdez is a bbd scientist stationed at
monument
a town a few hours away from purgatory
and dr valdez's file
makes mention of a test involving the
garden
it's not much to go on but it's all
they've got
and wynonna sets off for monument
leaving mercedes to
take care of nedley whose crab bite is
starting to get the better of him
on her way out of town wynonna gets a
flat and just as she's starting to feel
sorry for herself
sheriff hot shows up and really gives
her something to feel sorry about
wynonna drugged nicole jeremy and doc
before she went off to battle bullshark
because without her earpy powers she was
afraid
she'd be unable to keep them safe and
nicole is still
big mad but because they have bigger
fish to fry
nicole mostly forgives wynonna fixes the
flat
and then joins her on the mission to
monument
meanwhile we get our first glimpse of
the garden of eden
as doc steps inside what appears to be a
frozen tundra
with multiple freestanding doors he
immediately locates waverly who's
unexplainably
chained to some kind of smooth rock
formation
that's slowly choking the life out of
her doc rescues her by
pulling up what looks to be a living
rock from the bottom of a well
afterward they search for a way out but
none of the doors will open
waverly finds her father julian's throne
the place where he sat
to protect the garden and also the place
that turned him into stone
she has a sudden urge to sit on it but
thankfully doc stops her
after a little more searching they
discover a set of stairs
that lead into a crypt there they meet a
half crazed dude in a lab coat covered
in blood
lab coat dude is extremely happy to see
them and even happier
that they appear to be healthy doc and
waverly have
tons of questions for him but lab coat
dude tells them
there's only one thing they need to know
always keep her fed with
fresh human blood he then cuts off his
own head with the world's sharpest pair
of sheers
not long after the crypt or perhaps the
she
under the starts to majorly freak
out
so waverly and doc do the only thing
they can do
they flip the headless corpse upside
down
and essentially milk him in the hopes of
calming down
whatever she is and it works
at least for the time being meanwhile
back in monument nicole and wynonna
break into the abandoned bbd facility
but turns out it's not so abandoned
after all
there they meet rachel gloria valdez's
daughter
who's been squatting at the facility for
a while
she tells them there was some kind of
accident and in response
bbd gassed the lab along with the
scientist inside of it
for the sake of containment she also
tells them
it was deputy dolls who made her leave
before it happened
saving her life rachel eventually
returned to the facility
to locate her mother but gloria is still
m.i.a
wynonna hoping that whatever is inside
the lab is related to the garden
uses beaver dynamite to blast open the
doors
but in the process she awakens the dead
scientist
it seems that instead of killing them
bbd's gas
turned the scientists into straight-up
zombies the good news is
none of the zombies are glory of valdez
the bad news is
they're still zombies wynonna nicole and
rachel
go up against the undead but in the
process wynonna
steps on a grate which according to
rachel
is a really really bad idea nicole saves
wynonna by
pushing her off the grate but sheriff
hot ends up falling into
what looks like oblivion back in the
garden
doc and waverly are experiencing memory
lapses
and they both struggle to remember what
wynonna and nicole look like
but that will have to wait because the
chick in the crypt is hungry again
waverly sneaks away from doc and for
some reason
decides that giving an unknown beast a
taste of her angel blood
is a great idea the thing in the crypt
seems to like waverly's blood
a lot it draws waverly deeper into the
then gives her several options without
any context
we don't see which one waverly chooses
but it doesn't take a rocket scientist
doc wakes up to find a fully grown tree
in bloom that wasn't there before he
then goes down
into the crypt and finds none other than
nicole
and that is it for the recap thank you
guys so much for watching
and don't forget to subscribe for more
winona herb
and i'll see you next week